Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now the first thing you're going to notice about this lecture is I have a new interface running so I'm
using platens idle interpreter.
So that's development environment provided by Python itself.
When you install Python so if any of this is unfamiliar to you or you don't know how to get this interpreter
open running.
Please go back to the introduction sections and have a look there for the lecture on using Idol and
the reason I switch into Idol is because as you've seen in the last lectures I was using the Sublime
Text Editor but sublime does not let us use input statements.
And that's what this lecture is all about.
So in future lectures we're going to be discussing what's called branching and conditions.
But before we get there I want to discuss Python's import function and that function looks like this
in part opening close brackets.
So let's look at simple example of a welcome message.
So welcome equals input and then we place our argument inside or what we want the input method to show.
Welcome What's your name.
When we leave space there and we come back we close it up a quote and it becomes a bracket's perfect
except for the input function.
All of this should be very familiar to the purpose of the input function is again something from the
user.
In this case the users name it could be anything a password email address a phone number.
And I think your program is paused until a user enters something.
So let's run this.
And unlike sublime which saves automatically before you can run a program in idle you have to save it.
So let's just say it is.
There we go.
And then when you go up here run module
welcome what's your name.
So this is the pipe module Don't worry about it for the moment.
What's your name.
My name is Tony.
OK.
The takes in our name but it doesn't output anything.
That's OK for the moment.
Once it receives the user's input it is then stored in a variable for you to use later.
So as we can see here our import is asking us what's our name and that information that's imported by
the user such as your name will be stored in a variable welcomed the input function takes one argument
which is whatever you want to display to the user.
In our case the argument in this example is what is your name.
Our program then wait while the user enters the name and continues after the user presses enter the
response from the user.
The name is stored in the variable welcome.
So let's put what we get into the variable Welcome to the screen print Hello
close or double quotes plus welcome.
So we've seen this before.
Okay perfect.
And let's run this again.
So first we have to save us coopting the top menu.
Run.
Module.
So what's your name.
Tony hello Tony.
Perfect flight now takes user input and output to the screen.
Let's extend our program slightly and add in the title.
So welcome that t i t l e.
Opening closing brackets saver's command an S and run us which is EF 5.
So what's your name Tony.
Lowercase.
Hello Tony.
Uppercase.
Perfect.
We'll come back to this import function later.
But I just wanted to get you familiar with it because we're gonna be using it a lot in the lecture's
ahead.
Thank you.
And I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.